Lh7051 backingimage encryption support (#927)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.7.0/advanced-resources/backing-image/backing-image-encryption.md

---
title: Backing Image Encryption
weight: 2
---

Starting with v1.7.0, Longhorn allows you to encrypt and decrypt a backing image by cloning it. The backing image encryption mechanism utilizes the Linux kernel module `dm_crypt` and the command-line utility `cryptsetup`.

## Clone a Backing Image

> You can clone a backing image using YAML code.

Reviewer: It is not a zero-copy clone, right? It is better to mention a cloned image also consumes disk space.

Author: Yes, added

Example of a downloaded backing image:

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: download
  sourceParameters:
    url: https://longhorn-backing-image.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/parrot.raw
  checksum: 304f3ed30ca6878e9056ee6f1b02b328239f0d0c2c1272840998212f9734b196371560b3b939037e4f4c2884ce457c2cbc9f0621f4f5d1ca983983c8cdf8cd9a
```

Example of YAML code used to clone the sample backing image:

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot-cloned
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: clone
  sourceParameters:
    backing-image: parrot

>     encryption: ignore

Reviewer: We probably can improve that `encryption` is automatically mutated with `ignore` if it is an empty string. WDYT?

Author: Agree, I will create a hot fix PR.

Author: https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn-manager/pull/2956/files

```yaml
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: longhorn-crypto-global
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
allowVolumeExpansion: true
parameters:
  numberOfReplicas: "3"
  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880" # 48 hours in minutes
  fromBackup: ""
  encrypted: "true"
  backingImage: "parrot-cloned-encrypted"
  backingImageDataSourceType: "clone"  
  # global secret that contains the encryption key that will be used for all volumes
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
```

For more information, see [Volume Encryption](../../security/volume-encryption).

## Limitations
- Longhorn is unable to encrypt backing images that are already encrypted, and decrypt backing images that are not encrypted.
- Longhorn does not allow you to change the encryption key of an encrypted backing image.

> - When encrypting a qcow2 image, Longhorn first creates a raw image from the qcow2 image and then encrypts it. The resulting encrypted raw image temporarily consumes extra space during cloning.

Reviewer: Can you provide an example explaining the maximum extra space usage while cloning? Thank you.

Author: sure

  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880" # 48 hours in minutes
  fromBackup: ""
  encrypted: "true"
  backingImage: "parrot-cloned-encrypted"
  backingImageDataSourceType: "clone"  
  # global secret that contains the encryption key that will be used for all volumes
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
```

For more information, see [Volume Encryption](../../security/volume-encryption).

## Limitations
- Longhorn is unable to encrypt backing images that are already encrypted, and decrypt backing images that are not encrypted.
- Longhorn does not allow you to change the encryption key of an encrypted backing image.
- When encrypting a qcow2 image, Longhorn first creates a raw image from the qcow2 image and then encrypts it. The resulting encrypted raw image temporarily consumes extra space during cloning. For example, 

>     1. if we encrypt a 10MiB qcow2 image with a virtual size of 200MiB, we first create the raw image from the qcow2 which will consume 200MiB of the space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. If we encrypt a 10MiB qcow2 image with a virtual size of 200MiB, we first create the raw image from the qcow2 which will consume 200MiB of the space.
```

Author: fixed, thanks

---
title: Backing Image Encryption
weight: 2
---

As of v1.7.0, Longhorn supports encrypting and decrypting a backing image through cloning the backing image.

> Backing image encryption support utilizes the linux kernel module `dm_crypt` via `cryptsetup`.

Author: fixed.

## Clone a Backing Image
You can clone a backing image using the YAML.

> Example of a download backing image:

Author: fixed.

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: download
  sourceParameters:
    url: https://longhorn-backing-image.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/parrot.raw
  checksum: 304f3ed30ca6878e9056ee6f1b02b328239f0d0c2c1272840998212f9734b196371560b3b939037e4f4c2884ce457c2cbc9f0621f4f5d1ca983983c8cdf8cd9a
```

> Example of YAML code used to clone the sample backing image to a new backing image:

Author: fixed.

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot-cloned
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: clone
  sourceParameters:
    backing-image: parrot
    encryption: ignore
```

> **IMPORTANT:**
> - `backing-image`: Specify the source backing image for cloning.

> > - `encryption`: Set the value to `ignore` to directly clone the backing image.

Author: fixed.

## Encrypt a Backing Image
You can encrypt a backing image through cloning so the backing image can be used with an encrypted volume.

> Example of a download backing image:

Author: fixed.

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: download
  sourceParameters:
    url: https://longhorn-backing-image.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/parrot.raw
  checksum: 304f3ed30ca6878e9056ee6f1b02b328239f0d0c2c1272840998212f9734b196371560b3b939037e4f4c2884ce457c2cbc9f0621f4f5d1ca983983c8cdf8cd9a
```

> Example of YAML code used to clone and encrypt the sample backing image to a new encrypted backing image:

Author: fixed.

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot-cloned-encrypted
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: clone
  sourceParameters:
    backing-image: parrot
    encryption: encrypt
    secret: longhorn-crypto
    secret-namespace: longhorn-system
```

Example of YAML code used to encrypt the backing image:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: longhorn-crypto
  namespace: longhorn-system
stringData:
  CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE: "Your encryption passphrase"
  CRYPTO_KEY_PROVIDER: "secret"
  CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER: "aes-xts-plain64"
  CRYPTO_KEY_HASH: "sha256"
  CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE: "256"
  CRYPTO_PBKDF: "argon2i"
```

> **IMPORTANT:**

> > - `backing-image`: Specify the source backing image for cloning.

Author: fixed.

## Decrypt a Backing Image
You can decrypt an encrypted backing image through cloning. 

Example of an encrypted backing image:

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot-cloned-encrypted
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: clone
  sourceParameters:
    backing-image: parrot
    encryption: encrypt
    secret: longhorn-crypto
    secret-namespace: longhorn-system
```

Example of YAML code used to encrypt and decrypt the backing image:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: longhorn-crypto
  namespace: longhorn-system
stringData:
  CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE: "Your encryption passphrase"
  CRYPTO_KEY_PROVIDER: "secret"
  CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER: "aes-xts-plain64"
  CRYPTO_KEY_HASH: "sha256"
  CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE: "256"
  CRYPTO_PBKDF: "argon2i"
```

Example of YAML code used to decrypt the backing image:

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: BackingImage
metadata:
  name: parrot-cloned-decrypt
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  sourceType: clone
  sourceParameters:
    backing-image: parrot-cloned-encrypted
    encryption: decrypt
    secret: longhorn-crypto
    secret-namespace: longhorn-system
```

> **IMPORTANT:**

> > - `backing-image`: Specify the source backing image for cloning.

Author: fixed.

> - `encryption`: Set the value to `decrypt` to decrypt the backing image during cloning.
> - `secret`: Specify the secret used to decrypt the backing image.
> - `secret-namespace`: Specify the namespace of the secret used to decrypt the backing image.

> ## Using an encrypted Volume with the encrypted Backing Image
> 
> To use the encrypted volume with the encrypted backing image, the secret for encryption should be the same.
> Once the encrypted backing image is ready, you can create the storage class with the corresponding backing image and the secret to create the volume for the workload.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use an Encrypted Backing Image with an Encrypted Volume

The secret used to encrypt the backing image and the volume must be identical. Once the encrypted backing image is ready, you can create the StorageClass with the corresponding backing image and the secret to create the volume for the workload. 
```

Author: fixed.

Example of YAML code for the encryption secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: longhorn-crypto
  namespace: longhorn-system
stringData:
  CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE: "Your encryption passphrase"
  CRYPTO_KEY_PROVIDER: "secret"
  CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER: "aes-xts-plain64"
  CRYPTO_KEY_HASH: "sha256"
  CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE: "256"
  CRYPTO_PBKDF: "argon2i"
```

> Example of YAML code for the storage class:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example of YAML code for the StorageClass:
```

Author: fixed.

```yaml
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: longhorn-crypto-global
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
allowVolumeExpansion: true
parameters:
  numberOfReplicas: "3"
  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880" # 48 hours in minutes
  fromBackup: ""
  encrypted: "true"
  backingImage: "parrot-cloned-encrypted"
  backingImageDataSourceType: "clone"  
  # global secret that contains the encryption key that will be used for all volumes
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "longhorn-crypto"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: "longhorn-system"
```

> For more details of encrypted volume, please see [volume encryption](../../security/volume-encryption)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Volume Encryption](../../security/volume-encryption).
```

Author: fixed.

> ## Limitation
> 
> - We don't support encrypt an encrypted backing image.
> - We don't support decrypt an unencrypted backing image.
> - We don't support change the encryption key for an encrypted backing image.
> - when encrypting qcow2 image, we first temporarily create a raw image from the qcow2 image and then encrypted it. The result will be an encrypted raw image. It will temporarily cost extra raw image size during cloning.
> - If the source backing image is a sparse file, it will loss the sparsity afte encryption.
> - To store the LUKS metadata size when encryption, we expand the image size with extra 16MB, please see [cryptsetup release note](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup/-/blob/master/docs/v2.1.0-ReleaseNotes#L27)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Limitations

- Longhorn is unable to encrypt backing images that are already encrypted, and decrypt backing images that are not encrypted.
- Longhorn does not allow you to change the encryption key of an encrypted backing image.
- When encrypting a qcow2 image, Longhorn first creates a raw image from the qcow2 image and then encrypts it. The resulting encrypted raw image temporarily consumes extra space during cloning.
- If the source backing image is a sparse file, the file loses its sparsity after encryption.
- To allow storage of the LUKS metadata during encryption, the image size is increased by 16 MB. For more information, see the [cryptsetup release notes](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup/-/blob/master/docs/v2.1.0-ReleaseNotes#L27).
```

Author: fixed.
